When I was 11 years old I was first introduced to computers at my school and in my 10 th grade I came to
know that we can apply the mathematic calculations and logics to most of our day to day works to make
it simpler and easier. Eventually my interest towards computers has increased and also motivated day
by day, by the way has technology developing and advancing in the field of computers. This motivated
me to take computer science soon after my 10 th grade. To make my fundamentals strong enough in the
programming languages I have joined Diploma in Computers Science Engineering which is of 3 and ½
years after my 10 th grade, and then later I have done my under graduation in computer science
engineering for 3 years which provided me a firm base to put my knowledge into more technical
research.
Work Experience:
After my under graduation I joined as Software Engineer in a multinational company called XXXX in
Bangalore on Nov 2011, which I got selected through campus placement in under graduate college. I
have trained in various technologies like Object Oriented Programming, .Net (DotNet), C# (C Sharp),
Asp.Net, Ado.Net, XML, Web services and database systems like SQL server 2008 for 4 months and stood
top 3 rd in final test on all the above technologies in my batch of 100 trainees. During training I have
developed 2 websites as mini projects based on Asp.Net and SQL server 2008. Later I was allocated to
Microsoft Center of Excellence where my role involved in development of projects on DotNet and Sql
server 2008 technologies and also involved in Performance tuning of applications. While developing the
.Net (DotNet) applications, with my curiosity and keen interest I have learned SharePoint technology
and later started developing the applications in SharePoint as well. Based on my performance I was
promoted as Senior Software Engineer soon after completing 1 year of my experience with the
organization. I have exposed to work only to gain the real time practical knowledge and experience to
know how and to what extent the technologies are developed and utilized by utilizing my skills and
abilities, so that it would be useful for my further masters and PhD research to improve myself.
Under Graduation:
Coming to my under graduation a well-structured and comprehensive course curriculum at Chaitanya
Bharathi Institute of Technology (OSMANIA University) Hyderabad has given me a broad perspective of
the various fields in Computer Science, placing me on the right footing to select my areas of
specialization. Courses like Principles of programming languages, Data Structures, Discrete Structures,
Object oriented programming using Java, Computer Architecture, Operating Systems, Software
Engineering, Design &amp; Analysis of Algorithms, Data communications, Database Systems, Advanced
Database Systems, Artificial intelligence, Computer Networks, Web Programming &amp; services,  Compiler
Construction, Automata Languages and computation,  Object oriented systems, Embedded Systems,
Distributed Systems, Information Security, and Data Mining that form the core of Computer Science
and besides theoretical work, I gained practical knowledge by spending more time in computer
Laboratories in college which have provided me with a firm base in the programming languages.
Under Graduation Project:
I was fascinated by the capabilities and applicability of Artificial intelligence and neural networks made
me to do the project based on these fields. I have elected to do a research project in under graduation
that would simplify the recent year’s escalating use of physical documents to store the data. So I did
project titled “Multi-Lingual Optical Character Recognition Using Neural Networks” on Optical
Character Recognition that facilities easy creation of electronic documents from a physical documents

Page 2 of 3
for a better communication and storage. My curiosity and keen interest made me to learn .Net (DotNet)
technology for this project. The goal of my project was to create an application interface for a multi-
lingual optical character recognition that would use an artificial neural network as the backend to solve
the classification problem. Though intense research has done on OCR and a large number of articles
have been published, those are limited OCR systems which will work for Latin, Roman, English, and
Japanese characters. Very little research work has done on OCR’s for Indian scripts. In a multilingual
country like India it is common to have documents with multiple scripts. Finally my project was ended
up with successful for the recognition of all the English characters and all the base characters of Telugu.
Teaching Experience:
A part from gaining knowledge it is equally important to have good communication and presentations
skills to have successful career. I believe that we can learn more both conceptually and practically
through teaching others. I started teaching when I am doing my diploma 3 rd year; initially I was a
teaching assistant for high school mathematics then later after completing my 2 nd year in under
graduation I was teaching assistant for courses programming in C, C++, Data Structures, Database
systems and Core Java. My duties involved conducting labs and tutorial sessions simultaneously so that
student can remember easily, re-formulating the assignments so that the students can learn more, both
conceptually and practically, helping the students with their doubts and evaluating and grading them.
These assistantships helped me improve my communication and presentation skills as well as sound
knowledge of the fundamental concepts.
Achievements:
 Secured 47 th rank in ECET (Engineering Common Entrance Test) state level exam.
 Awarded “Third Prize” in “Coding &amp; Debugging” in a national level technical Symposium in
Dr.B.V.Raju Institute of Technology.
 Won the SILVER medal for the Badminton runner up conducted by Avance IT Park at IGATE
Global Solutions Private Limited.
 Won the second and third year cricket cups in under graduation.
Co-Curricular Activities:
I am a Volunteer of ICARE team activities at IGATE Global Solutions Private Limited in which we collect
fund for the sake of poor students and buy books and distribute them among government aided school
and also organized many events like “Coding &amp; Debugging”, LAN Gaming, Super Sixes (Cricket event)
conducting group discussions and Mock Interview (at college level for preparing the students for campus
recruitment) during my under graduation at college level and state level events.
Why This University:
A Masters in Computer Science from an American university that pairs students with highly qualified
teachers, engaged in cutting-edge research would be the next logical step in my career. I am eager to
join graduate program and work under the guidance of the distinguished faculty members of the
XXXXXXXXXX University. My web research to identify a reputed university where I can get associated
with research work in the areas of my interest has led me to XXXXXXXXXXXXX University. I am
convinced that the facilities in the department of computer science in your university will be very useful
for dedicated involvement in research projects. I believe that a graduate program, in Computer Science
in XXXXXXXXXXXXXX University, will help me reach my goals.

Page 3 of 3
In conclusion, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for enabling me to express myself. I
would be very thankful if I am offered an admission with scholarship and assistantship in your esteemed
university.

----------------------------------------

“A person doesn’t gain knowledge by possessing an insatiable thirst for it,
But by searching for the means to quench it”
- Jerdon Malloch
That day still runs in my mind when I first saw the autonomous robot in the science
planetarium during my high school period , It was the time when technology had begun to make an
impact on the lives of people in India. I was really excited and fascinated about the robot as it was
following the dark line on a sheet on its own with out human control, so called “Line follower”. Apart
from that experience the communication field really attracted me with its path breaking technology like
‘Blue tooth’. So I decided to master these concepts and entered in to the field which includes both my
passions. As practical work is required for expertise in any concept, I took Electronics and
Communication Engineering for pursuing my under graduation.
Continued with the passion about the Electronics I started learning about many subjects
those which are required for my goal. During the course of my undergraduate study I was exposed to
various courses like Electronic devices and Circuits, Electronics circuit Analysis, Micro Processors,
Linear &amp; Digital IC applications, Pulse Digital Circuits, Switching Theory and Logic Design. Apart
from Electronics I learned the communication subjects like Analog communications,
Telecommunication systems &amp; switching networks, Digital communications, Antenna Wave
Propagations and Radar systems, Cellular and Mobile Communication systems. The
communication concepts made me to correlate with the communications of daily life like regular
antennas, telephone and mobile networking. These concepts build me with strong Basics in my subjects.
.
Continuing with my interest in Electronics and Communication I also liked to learn the
Computer science. During my first year I had a subject called C Programming and Data Structures which
was ambiguous to me, but when I gone through the subject later I understood it well and learned by
myself easily as it was like playing a logical game. From there I practiced writing codes using C all by
myself. This interest in me later moved me to learn other programming languages like C++&amp; Java. With
this interest I also learned other coding languages like ECAD, Mat-lab during my final project “An efficient
Resource Allocation for Future Wireless Communication” which helped me in understanding the results
obtained with the mixture of software and hardware.
I am also a very good sportsman. I have captained our college cricket team to the finals
and semi-finals of various cricket tournaments on various occasions. I have been a very good ‘kabaddi’
and ‘kho-kho’ player since my schooling. I have also been involved in social service and community work.
I wish to earn an MS degree in Computer Science. I have spoken to my professors,
seniors and colleagues about my choice of University, and have applied to your University because it is
reputed for its research facilities. The department web site revealed a very strong faculty involved in
extensive research in the area of computers. This has strengthened my resolve to study at your
esteemed University.
Excellence in any subject can be achieved with continuous dedication and zeal to
achieve your goal. My deep desire to continue my studies at your graduate school stems from that it is
one of the top colleges and having fine record of academic excellence and is backed up by expert faculty
and research facilities. In this concept I would like to pursue the course of study in your esteemed
university. If I can get an opportunity to be a part of that wonderful environment, I am sure that my talents
will become a part of this world of knowledge.

(________)

---------------------------------------

‘Success is a journey, not the destination’. This is one of my favourite precepts and at
this point in my life when I have just completed my under graduation and my future unfolds in
front of me like a maze, a dream; this maxim has never influenced my life more than this
before.
As I stand at the vestibule of completing my undergraduate study, after carefully weighing
the various career options open to me, I have decided to pursue Master’s study in Computer
Science. Choosing Electrical &amp; Electronics as my undergraduate major was driven by my
passion for mathematics and physics, my fascination for revolving magnetic fields which is
mainly applicable to electrical objects like electrical motors, transformers, heavy machinery
used in industries. During my undergraduate study, I had exposure to various fields of
electrical and computer subjects such as mathematics, network theory, electrical machines,
analog and digital circuits, C programming and data structures, computer system
organization, Database Management system, microprocessors (8086) &amp; micro Controllers.
Computer fundamentals like mathematics, C programming language, data structures and
operating systems principles captivated my interest. I showed great interest in concepts of
Data Base management systems and Data structures. Considering my passion towards
Database I was asked to be a part of database management system implementation to meet
the administrative needs of the electrical engineering departmentof our college for electrical
lab equipment management. The electrical lab equipment database management system
was designed to control the department inventories, which consist of equipment, parts, and
spares. This helped our department to have reports prepared instantly for academic and
audit purposes. It really amazed me that how a small and user understandable SQL query
format can solve and reduce human involvement and effort to collect , store and report the
electrical lab equipment data, which would help the people to concentrate more on their core
environment ,and reduces their time and effort to invest on collecting these kind of data.
Without my knowing, I have gravitated toward database systems and started exploring on it.
Meanwhile, to lift up my knowledge in Database Management Systems I used to work in my
college laboratories on database designing and its implementation. This lab experience
really helped me a lot in better understanding many concepts of database and driven my
interest to undertake my academic project to have database implementation involved. My
project was“Automation Substation Monitoring And Controlling” which has an
microcontroller(AT89S52) with embedded C program to monitor various units of power
system and aneasy database design to store electrical distribution system equipment

nameplate data and the power system study results like display and print short circuit
results, arc flash study results, protective device settingstime current curve device number
and curve discussions, equipment nameplate data for motors, transformers, generators,
transfer switches, panel board, switchboards, motor control centres, switchgears, circuit
breakers and other electrical equipment which enables the user to obtain study results and
equipment information without searching multiple files and report binders. As my journey on
database systems continues, I have come across how databases were implemented on
various kind of business and how they have been fulfilling the business needs, and how they
have been solving the biggest challenges (Data) of today’s business. As the data becoming
more and more pivotal to the business, a lot of new challenges are emerging to manage
the data in a efficient manner. To fulfil the gap between my skills and current challenges in
the area of Database I would like to add that the essence of good University education which
enhances not only my skills butalso privilegesme to fulfil my career goals.
.At XXX University, I am confident that, I can transgress the concepts of DBMS and explore
the various aspects that are tangled with DBMS. As a centre of excellence that consists of
renowned faculty members, excellent lab infrastructure, challenging curricula, innovative
courses and a technical emphasis helps students to learn and apply practices, tools and
techniques in a real world project environment. After successful completion of my
Graduation Program, I intend to work and continue my research in DBMS where I can put
my improved knowledge to effective use. I am sure I will achieve my career goals at your
university, and I wish to assure you that, as a committed student I will put forth my skills,
innovation, and zeal in achieving the same. I trust that, by utilizing my theoretical
background and project experience I can extract maximum gain from this Graduation
program and give the best returns to the society.

-------------------------------------

I am very thankful for providing me this opportunity and it is with sincere sense of gratification
that I pen my brief statement of purpose. Working for betterment and improvement has been my
motto in all aspects of life, and the same applies even to my professional and academic career.
Starting off with my academic’s, I completed schooling (SSC) in VSK Memorial High School,
Kukatpally, India. My school helped me develop better in the field of science, right from the
initial stages, with different techno fests, science expos and I have secured 80.33% marks in 10 th
standard. Then I said to myself that I am a far better performing student than these marks
suggest. Hence to prove my capability I worked hard with sincerity and devotion and obtained
valuable marks of 86.8% in my Board of Intermediate at Sri Vyshnavi Junior College,
Kukatpally, India.
My bachelors program in Computer Science and Engineering discipline at MLR Institute of
Technology, one of the premier engineering colleges affiliated to the Jawaharlal Nehru
Technological University (H) Hyderabad has given me a substantial knowledge of the basic
areas of computer science. I have striven to develop a clear understanding of the basic concepts
and acquire an insight into the Computer Science.
Computer Science and engineering has always fascinated me as the field of engineering having
the most practical applications. My undergraduate studies have given me the chance to study in a
stimulating academic environment, where I have had a comprehensive exposure to all core fields
of Computer Science and Engineering like Computer Networks, Data Structures, Computer
Architecture, Operating Systems, Design and Analysis of Algorithms, Artificial
Intelligence, Human Computer Interaction, …….etc.
With the knowledge of all these core fields I have done two projects in Btech. Mini project is
“Online Library Management System” which is done under the platform of java, I leaded the
team with a group of 3 members. The main aim of our project is to create a new digital paper less
library system where we can access the information easily and fastly about the books/journals we
desire for, while the traditional method of compiling information requires huge resources and
also time consuming. The system can run on all popular platforms environment (UNIX,
Windows etc.) and have a modern graphical user interface.
My main project is “Launch Computer Simulation”, which is done in DRDO RCI(Research
Center Imarat) under the platform of vc++,here I played a role of designing . This software
controls and performs the Avionics System check out activities while the components are being
prepared for launch.. The main object of our project is to simulate the launch computer system,
which involves establishing communication between LC and OBC, which is done by using RS-
422 interface which satisfies all the requirements for the communication. This project was
selected as the best project in our computer science department.
My fascination of engineering is of long-standing .An engineering course, though comprehensive
in its curriculum, provides limited scope for specialization. The scope was limited to the
theoretical course. At this juncture, I have come to realize that the knowledge gained so far is
inadequate, thus I am interested in pursuing my graduate program (M.S), which will help me to
make a firm foundation for my future.

I intend to pursue M.S degree at your renowned University which I believe will give a
direction to my goal of a successful and challenging career as a software professional and I am
confident that given an opportunity, I will match the high standards set by your prestigious
University . I have chosen this university because of its one of the best computer science
department , Masters degree at your university would not only provide me subject matter
expertise but also thorough research oriented study would help me lay foundation for fulfillment
of my dream..
In conclusion, I would like to say that if granted admission into your university I would perform
to the best of my abilities and hope to acquire skills that will help me realize my dreams. Finally
I take this opportunity to thank you for enabling me to express myself
Thank you for your time and consideration.

--------------------------------------

Introducing myself as _____________, a final year student of Bachelor of
Technology in Computer Science and Engineering, I wish to study further to
refine my knowledge and skills in my areas of interest . Among the many paths
forked out in different directions, the one towards which my thoughts are
unwaveringly oriented is the path towards Graduate studies, with Computer
Science as Major in an esteemed University which fulfills my ever-cherished
dream of pursuing a research career and attain more knowledge.
My aim in pursuing a course of graduate study is to make some
fundamental contribution to human knowledge. It would be wonderful if my
research could help people by making a positive impact in the real world. I know
it won&#39;t be easy; but I am prepared to stretch my limits. My first preference has
always been INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY, COMPUTER NETWORKS
and DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. My ardent desire towards
COMPUTER NETWORKS drove me to choose a paper on NETWORK
SECURITY as my Term Paper in this semester.
As a child, I was always intrigued by the solutions to the complex
problems and their practical implementations. I used to spend a lot of time trying
to explore and figure out their principles. In my childhood I found myself drawn
towards subjects that required in-depth analysis and logical thinking. I was awed
by their simple fundamentals which form the governing basis for a lot of practical
applications. In order to understand these concepts I took part in numerous
science fairs and practical workshops. This exposure taught me the importance of
simple and practical design. To understand the principles and practical aspects of
designing a product, I decided to pursue my career in Engineering.
This predilection drove me to opt for Mathematics as my major in senior
secondary. It was during this time that I got exposed to the exciting world of
Computers and their computing capabilities. With this quest for knowledge, when
I had the choice of selecting my major for the Bachelor of Technology, being
ranked in top 3% of nearly 2,75,000 students in the competitive EAMCET
(EAMCET forms the baseline for admissions to undergraduate colleges ) exam, I
opted for Computer Science and Engineering at DVR college of engineering,
affiliated to JAWAHARLAL NEHRU TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY.

Academic Background &amp; Research Interests
In my undergraduate studies, I have benefited from the breadth of
Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University’s syllabi content that has given me a
comprehensive exposure to the core areas of Computer Science and a strong
conceptual understanding of the same. In these three and half years of study, I
have strived to maintain an approach of expending independent effort in all my
endeavors. Learning by myself and sharing my knowledge with others has
been most worthwhile, when comprehending a concept.
Over the past two years, I have developed an interest in the areas of
Computer Networks and Information Security. The Information Security lab
sessions last semester required the design of security algorithms using
programming languages like C, C++ and Java. The work involved in this, as
well as the courses, Design &amp; Analysis of Algorithms and Principles of
Communication, has lead me to appreciate the intricacies involved in this
field. However, for my MS degree, I remain open to other topics as well.
For my B.Tech project, I have decided to concentrate on my other area
of interest viz. Information Retrieval. I’m attempting to evolve a technique that,
when employed in a search engine, will maximize the comprehensiveness and
precision of the query listings. The work, “Anatomy of large-scale hyper-textual
search engine” by Lawrence Page and Sergey Brin, has introduced me to a vast
body of pertinent research. This has served to sharpen my inclination to
engage in active research within this area.
One person’s life influences the lives of an unbelievable number of
people, one of the most important lessons I learned, being the President of
Computer Science Association, a student body of Computer Science
Department, during my B.Tech. Hence the need of responsible actions. It
taught me that the basis for good work is self-reliance and very
importantly, time management. Not all of my entire one year was devoid of
shortcomings. I learned to accept both criticism and praise with a positive
frame of mind. My work involved organizing various events, like Techno-
Fest, a National-level event, held annually in our college, brought with
them the opportunity to work and interact with various kinds of people. This was

a distinctively gratifying experience for me, which I feel would stand in
good stead in the future, especially in lieu of any teaching experience.
In conclusion, I would like to add that the essence of University education
lies in the synergetic relationship between the student and his department. I
feel that graduate study at your University will be the most logical
extension of my academic pursuits and a major step towards achieving my
objectives. I would be grateful to you if I’m accorded the opportunity to
pursue my graduate studies with financial assistance at your institution and
am able to justify your faith in me.


----------------------------
