&quot;Take up one idea. Make that one idea your life -- think of it, dream of it, live on that idea. Let the
brain, muscles, nerves, every part of your body be full of that idea, and just leave every other idea
alone. This is the way to success.&quot; -- Swami Vivekananda
Since childhood, I always had this saying on my mind and I followed it religiously. I did my
schooling in Bharatiya Vidya Bhavans Public School at BHEL, Hyderabad in India. Apart from the
regular course curriculum, there were many co-curricular and extra-curricular activities conducted by
my school back then, some of them being international and national level Olympiads like
International Mathematical Olympiad (IMO), National Science Olympiad (NSO), Green Olympiad
organised by TERI. I am gratified to say that I have developed personal and professional skills from
then. Taking part in such kind of activities provided me with a lot of important experiences outside
the traditional classroom. They helped me to develop time management, organizational skills and
group interaction outside of the tight circle of the regular classroom and taught me the importance of
following through on commitments. I also got an opportunity to take part in several extra-curricular
activities like athletics, art, dance competitions, debate and JAM. During these activities, I assimilated
how to mingle with different peer groups which satisfied the needs of socialization, self-assessment
and self-identification. Apart from these, we were introduced to a subject called computers. I have
always been fascinated by how the computer works in such an efficient manner from then. I used to
wonder how such tedious calculations were being performed by a computer in quick time.
Simultaneously I developed a keen interest in Mathematics and Science and achieved cumulative
grade point average of 9.2 in my 10 th grade Central Board Public Examination.
The longing interest in Mathematics during my middle schooling encouraged me to take Mathematics,
Physics, Chemistry in high school (Intermediate). In the initial days, I found it quite tough to catch up
with the syllabus since I transitioned from a Central Board to a State Board, but I never gave up. I am
proud to say that my perseverance and hard work helped me to secure 962 marks out of 1000 in the
State Board Intermediate Public Examination.
At present I am in my final year of my 4-year undergraduate studies and recently gave my
examinations for the 1 st semester of the final year. My cumulative grade point average until the end of
3 rd year is 8.14.
The fascination for computers which started during my schooling developed into a passion which led
me to choose Computer Science as the major discipline in my under graduate course at VNR Vignana
Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology (An Autonomous Institute), Hyderabad, India, a
reputed institution for Science and Technology and a top college in the state of Telangana. I took a
wide gamut of courses concentrating on Computer Programming languages like C, C++, JAVA and
subjects like Data Base Management Systems, Operating Systems, Computer Networks, Data Mining,
Big Data Analytics, Artificial Intelligence &amp; Neural Networks, Introduction to Internet of Things etc
and aptly complemented by laboratory courses. These subjects helped me gain a strong background in
the fundamentals of Computer Science. The challenging assignments that were part of the laboratory
courses helped me to develop the required technical and programming skills. My ardour for Web
Technologies made me do a project on a train ticket reservation system during my second year of
under graduate course under the guidance of my faculty. This project helped me to uncover the
practical applications of all that I have learnt until then and also helped me develop my team-building
and communication skills.
Later, along with three of my classmates I was involved in a project “VITA- Blood Donor Central
Database” under the supervision of my mentor Dr. Ramesh Chandra Gollapudi. Blood Donor Central
Database is a web-based application which maintains a centralized database to store information
related to blood donors and blood providing organizations. Dr. Ramesh Chandra Gollapudi took keen
interest on our project work and guided us all along till the completion of our project work by
providing all the necessary information for developing a good application.

Although a focused academic, I balanced my scholastic efforts with extra-curricular activities which I
believe ensured an all-round development of my personality. In my 2 nd year, I conducted a workshop
named “Mobile Application Development” during our college technical fest CONVERGENCE-2017,
a national level technical symposium which helped me hone my organizational skills. I am proud to
inform that the workshop attracted the maximum number of registrations in the fest. I completed an
online course on “Data Science for Engineers” from NPTEL, an online e-learning platform and an
offline course “Data Analytics using Python” by Alltronics Technologies Pvt Ltd, Hyderabad. I also
hold a certificate of BEC (Business English Vantage) offered by University of Cambridge with a
grade A, which enhanced my interpersonal and Business English skills. Apart from these, I also
participated as a delegate in Youth Speak Forum 2017 powered by AIESEC, Hyderabad held in the
month of October 2017 at BITS PILANI, Hyderabad. Youth Speak is one of the Global Initiatives of
AIESEC that gathers like-minded students and empowers them with leadership and entrepreneurship
while making them more self-aware and solution oriented. 
I am a person who believes that the exams one has passed, notes one has scribbled on hundreds of
pages and the valuable lectures to which one has lent ears to are never enough until and unless they are
all practically seen and visualized. So, during my 3 rd year of under graduation, I attended an industrial
visit to “INFOSYS”, an Indian multinational corporation. The interaction with the employees there
helped me learn the industrial functions and business concepts from their perspective and I was
exposed to the challenges an organization faces in order to survive in the corporate world.
Having acquired a solid foundation in the field of computer science through a rigorous undergraduate
program, at this point in time I feel that it is the right time for me to take up graduate studies. After a
detailed study of your university website, I have collated information about the courses and facilities
that are offered and have decided to apply to your university for an MS graduate program in Computer
Science. I believe that the MS program offered by your university will undoubtedly provide me with
the right knowledge, skills and experience to pursue my dreams and exploit future opportunities to the
fullest. Given an opportunity, I assure you that by my hard work I would prove to be a rightful
candidate for research work in the university since I have always been inclined towards practical tasks
with an everlasting quest to learn more all the time. I believe that my serious intention for higher
studies, my projects, my certifications and strong academic background in various areas of Computer
Science will be beneficial for my graduate studies and research. Attending your prestigious institution
would give me an opportunity to receive high-level education under the guidance of your esteemed
and prominent professors.
I would regard my admission to your university not only as a great honour but also as a great
responsibility and challenge to prove myself. This would go a long way in my dream of pursuing a
great career to reach my ultimate goal of creating efficient technologies with ease of access to human
life. Hoping to be part of your esteemed institution and finding a place in the university roll of honour.
I thank the university and the department in particular for giving me an opportunity to express myself.



-----------------------------------------------------------

For most children, their fondest memories are of their favorite toy, game, or best friend. In my
case, the most vivid memory was when I got my hands on a computer. Excited by the immense
potential these super machines have and their use in everyday life, I spent hours trying to discern
the intricacies of complex systems in the machine. I was soon capable enough to help my friends
and family solve their challenges with technology and automation around them. This interest in
computers, paired with my inclination towards mathematics and problem-solving, made a
Bachelor's in Computer Science the ideal option for me. Eager to gain a comprehensive
understanding of the domain that is the driving force behind the construction of algorithms and the
development of the world, I now seek a Master's in Data Science from your esteemed institution.
The undergraduate curriculum was replete with a host of courses that aimed to teach me the basics
of Computer Science like data structure, object-oriented programming, algorithms, and
networking. This wide range of subjects has sharpened my critical and analytical thinking as well
as problem-solving skills. During my junior and senior years, I completed a minor specialization
in 'Intelligent Systems,' which comprised machine learning, artificial intelligence, natural language
processing, and social network analysis courses. All these subjects provided me with a broader
perspective of the domain that had captivated me.
During my senior year, I was offered an internship and a full-time opportunity by Samsung
Research Institute. I was assigned the task of image processing as my internship project—the
project aimed to segment images into foreground and background for faster bokeh effect postprocessing. We researched and implemented multiple segmentation algorithms to compare their
efficiency and accuracy. We finally chose Mask R-CNN due to its better performance. I used the
TensorFlow framework to implement our model and converted the model into TensorFlow Lite to
incorporate the trained model in the Samsung camera. This project familiarized me with image
segmentation models and provided me with hands-on experience with the Tensorflow framework,
neural networks, feature engineering, and data visualization techniques.
Two and half years and still running, my work with Samsung has been enlightening as I often
received the front seat of the raging developments in technology. Being part of the camera division,
I have come to perceive the vast code. The developer must execute any new feature only after
checking its viability against the massive codebase. My team is involved in implementing changes
at the kernel level and at the 'Hardware Abstraction Layer,' which are coded in C and C++
languages. Due to my competence in C and C++, I was involved in the flagship chipset, i.e.,
Exynos 9820 (involving high specification devices like S10 and Note10 variants) OS upgrade from
OS 10 to OS 11 for the camera system. I was also involved in the OS up-gradation of the
Exynos9830 chipset (involving high specification devices like S20 and Note20 variants) from OS
11 to OS 12 for the camera system. Being responsible for carefully migrating the camera system
files and writing dependency code for the new OS, I could appreciate the complexities involved in
working with the Samsung camera in Samsung mobile phone.
Additionally, I implemented a new feature introduced in operating system 12 of Android for high
specification devices like S20 and Note20. Google android introduced a new privacy feature to
give complete control of the camera and mic access to the user for third-party applications. If the
user disables the camera from the quick settings, this feature sends black frames instead of regular
preview frames from camera sensors. This solution was critical as it also involved implementing
changes in sensor files. This feature expanded my learning about camera sensor files and their
implementations.
All my experiences have taught me one common lesson: the world cannot function without data,
and I am keen to contribute to its analysis through the magnificent sphere of Data Science. Post
my Master's degree; I seek to be working for a reputed small-scale startup as a Machine Learning
Engineer. This would help me strengthen the concepts of data science and better understand the
operations of a successful startup. Five to six years down the line, I plan to work in the healthcare
domain using data science to improve healthcare facilities in rural areas.
Such ambitious targets have inspired me to apply to the Master's program in Data Science at your
renowned university. Texas A&M University – College Station Campus is the perfect place to
enhance my skillset and knowledge in this domain. I am eager to learn from your well-structured
curriculum, including electives like Machine Learning and Deep Learning, which align with my
interests. I look forward to working and learning under esteemed faculty members like Prof Yalong
Pi. His work in Deep Learning for Visual Analytics of the Spread of COVID-19 Infection in
Crowded Urban Environments was fascinating as it gave a visual analysis approach using neural
networks to control the community spread of COVID. My academic and professional experiences
have led me to encounter diverse people, and I want to expand upon this experience by engaging
with my fellow scholars at the Operational Data Science Lab. Through my association with them,
I will be able to embrace a global perspective that will play a pivotal role in maturing me as an
individual and a seasoned professional.
As I conclude, I assure you that through my endeavors in academia and the industry, I will strive
to be a source of pride for you.


------------------------------------------------------------------

Creativity is the one quality that distinguishes humans from all other creations. It makes life
interesting and worth living for. I feel that creativity is something that has been imbued in me.
I see life as one huge canvas – it gives me the opportunity to experiment and to express my
individuality – but in the end i want to paint a beautiful, unique and meaningful picture on this
great canvas called life. I have a strong urge to be innovative in any enterprise that i
undertake. It is this urge that has made me pursue graduate studies in the field of Computers.
I recall one incident in college where the professor (He was the head of the department in
which i studied) gave the class a difficult puzzle, which he had seen in a puzzle book, to solve.
I thought about the puzzle for a long time and came up with an answer. But when i gave the
answer to the professor, he was unusually surprised. It was a valid solution to the puzzle, but
it was not the one mentioned in the puzzle book. I had invented another way of solving the
puzzle. He appreciated my ability to innovate and encouraged me to be original. This incident
really motivated me to think out of the box. It taught me that every problem had many
solutions and it is was just a matter of finding them.
Though i channelize my creativity in various activities, such as sketching and photography,
computers function as the primary outlet for my creativity. But i have to say that i don&#39;t see
computers as something just for playing around with. I am aware that the rapid
advancements in technology during the past quarter of a century was mainly due to
computers. I want to be a part of this technological advancement, and the best place for me
to start would have to be in the country that has been in the forefront of these advancements
– the country that gave the world the Internet.
I was fascinated by computers ever since i was 13. That was when my father had bought me
and my brothers a computer. But at that time my interest in computers would get me into
trouble frequently. I still remember my elder brother admonishing me for fiddling with the
computer and messing it up. As time went by my fascination grew into a strong quest for
knowledge. I began to understand the fundamentals of working with a computer. Then at the
age of 16, I began to learn programming. Even at that age my teachers and fellow students
were impressed with my programming skills, and they still are.
I have always been a good student, with good academic performance to show. I had scored
79% in my 10th standard board exams. Then i graduated from high school with an average of
91%. I had chosen Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry and Computer Science as my major
subjects. I did my under-graduation in the field of information technology and secured an
average of 72%. I am presently working as a Software Engineer in Hewlett Packard , which is
a fortune 11 company.
When i finished my schooling , i chose information technology as my undergraduate major,
even though the IT sector was going though a huge trough at that time and there were no
takers for IT as an undergraduate course. This was primarily due to my unshakable passion
towards computers. I joined the esteemed B.S Abdur Rahman Crescent engineering college,
which is among the top engineering colleges in chennai. I got a merit seat in that college.
During my undergraduate study in crescent, i received training in fundamentals of
engineering, communication, and electronics. I got exposed to the core subjects of information
technology, such as Data Structures, Computer Architecture, Operating Systems,
Microprocessors, Object Oriented Programming, Database Management Systems and Software
Engineering. Apart from these, i was trained in other specialized subjects such as
Telecommunication, Switching Techniques, Web Technologies, Software Quality Management,
Distributed Operating Systems, Data Mining and Data Warehousing. I am also grateful to the
university for having included a few non-technical subjects, which i think will stand me in good
steed in this competitive world. These subjects include Principles of Management, Total Quality
Management and Environmental Science and Engineering.
Though I seek knowledge in all the above mentioned fields and technologies, I am particularly
interested in the fields of Object Oriented Analysis, Design and Programming and Reverse
Engineering as they are all intellectually challenging as well as interesting fields. My final year
project was based on these concepts and was titled &#39;Extraction of object models&#39;. It was about
creating a software that would automatically extract the design of an application from the

executables. I was also the topper in my class for the subject of &#39;Object Oriented
Programming&#39;. I am confident that given an opportunity, i can excel in these fields and make
useful innovations.
After four years of undergraduate education in the field of information technology, i feel i have
devoured every bit of knowledge that has been fed to me. I consider these to be my first steps
towards achieving my objectives and I am deeply grateful to my university and college for
showing me the way. But the knowledge gained in undergraduate studies have not satiated
me, they have only whetted my intellectual appetite. And i believe that your esteemed
university will nourish this hunger of mine and make me bloated with knowledge. I would like
to do my graduate course at an established university, complete with all facilities and which
has been a yardstick for excellence like yours. In this regard, I had a very good feedback from
my academic counselors and seniors. So i beseech you to kindly consider my credentials and
let me have the honor of being associated with your university.
In return I assure the university will find me a keen and passionate student, who would
contribute to the excellent track record of your university. My admission to your university will
propel me towards my career objective which is to become an innovator in technology. I am
confident that with my solid undergraduate work and willingness to pursue new admissions
and research, I can perform to my best and meet the high standards set by your university. I
request you to kindly consider me for any form of financial assistance, as it would be of great
help to me.
I am really looking forward for an exciting stay at your university.



---------------------------------------------------------------

At the threshold of what I imagine to be an opportunity to test and transcend the realms of
scientific discovery. It is my childhood passion to continue relentlessly; and experience, newness
in every endeavor I undertake and venture to test my inner strength. The journey of an idea to
reality must inevitably pass through the hands of an engineer. The infinite ways in which an
engineer can manifest a simple idea to bring it to life gave a tremendous of appeal to me. The
desire to learn how things work and my natural inclination towards Physics and Mathematics,
gave me the impetus to become an engineer. My fascination with computers began from early
high school when we had introductory computer classes. Further, programming and graphics
lessons caught my imagination and soon computers became almost an obsession. This resulted in
my choosing Computer Science for undergraduate studies.
My interest in computer science further grew as a student of Computer Science Engineering, in
MallaReddy College of Engineering and Technology, which is affiliated to the Jawaharlal Nehru
Technological University (JNTU). My undergraduate program has given me a strong foundation
and has brought about considerable maturity in my outlook. During the course of my
undergraduate study, I was exposed to various subjects like Programming in C and JAVA, Data
Structures through C, Database Management Systems (DBMS), Design and Analysis of
Algorithms (DAA), Network Security, Software Engineering, Advanced Operating Systems
(Distributed OS). This improved my knowledge immensely. Apart from the regular Bachelor’s
degree, I learned various programming languages such as C, C++, C#, Java and HTML. I
worked on various projects as part of the under graduation course, such as a project on “Bar
Code Generation and Detection for Motor Vehicles”, using C#.

My sheer interest in learning new things is evident from my Microsoft Technology Associate
certification in Web Development Fundamentals. My flexibility towards learning is evident from
my attendance to seminars on ‘Ethical hacking’ and ‘.NET Development’. I have also attended
a workshop on ‘Android Application Programming’ at MRCET in 2012. The Internet
revolution was also a significant spur that drove me to gain immense knowledge, which helped
me to stand second in the technical quiz conducted in a reputed college named “VNR VIGNAN
JYOTHI INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHONOLY“.

I took part in various state level science fairs and talent search program competitions. My active
participation in college and youth festivals reveals my dedicated involvement in extra curricular
activities too. I am also an active member of the Computer Society of India (CSI).I took part in
paper presentation titled “CAPTCHA” during my under-graduation course. For this
presentation, I had to refer lots of books and other sources of information, which helped me gain
additional knowledge, supplementing my regular courses. My involvement in such co-curricular
and extra-curricular activities enhanced my communication skills as well as confidence.
I am highly interested in Software Development and want to take up Computer Science as my
field of study for the Master of Science program. My interest in these subjects drives me to learn
them to the greatest of depths. Learning these subjects in their most modern form would not only
give me the edge over other competing students but also provide me the satisfaction of pursuing
the career that I like so much and which interests me to the core of my heart.
An eminent faculty, excellent research facilities, pleasant university ambiance and a balanced
academic program which are very much conducive to the fields of my interest I feel, make your
University the right place to embark upon an academic career. Given the chance, I am confident
that with my commitment &amp; hard work, I can excel and become an asset to your esteemed
institution. Since I aim for a career which involves teaching with active research, in your
esteemed University would provide a wonderful opportunity to pursue a graduate degree
followed by a PhD. I am confident that I would bring out the best in myself if given the
opportunity to develop my aptitude and skills through the Masters Program at your University.


-------------------------------------------------------


The Boundless possibility of trying out and the instant knowledge of the
outcome that stimulates one for further analysis of a rationale in question is what I find
most appealing about Computer Science Keeping up an inquisitive and explorative
attitude, I believe, leads to a constant learning process. This approach adds to the already
immense potential for innovation that exists in this field.
As a student in the final year of undergraduate study for a Bachelor of
Technology, I look to graduate study to refine my knowledge and skills in my areas of
interest. I believe it will also serve to give direction to my goal of a career as a research
professional at an academic research-oriented organization. I intend to pursue Master’s
degree in order to reach that goal.
Academic Background :
My initial interest towards computers started in my ninth standard when I
attended a science exhibition where a software embedded model greatly impressed me.
After completing the secondary education, I had to choose between arts and science for
my post-secondary education. Science as a subject has always fascinated me, right from
school days. Further my father, being a Ph.D holder in Mathematics (IIT Kharagpur,
India) exposed me to the wonders of Mathematics and made me understand the practical
application of Mathematics in Technology. It is only because of this, I choose science as
my major for my post secondary education.
Institution:
My diligent preparation and excellent performance in the two years of post-
secondary education ensured me to stand in top 1 % in All India Engineering Entrance
exam. On the basis of this achievement and my passion for computer science made me to
opt IIIT ALLAHABAD, which is one of the top 10 reputed Engineering Institutions of
India for under graduation in Information Technology.
The well structured curriculum of my Institution exposed me to all the core areas
of computer science like operating systems, database management systems, networks and
network security, data structures and algorithms, software engineering. My intentional
focus in these subjects with the aid of excellent environment and well equipped labs
provided by the institution and lectures by eminent faculty helped me to have strong
footing in the basic concepts, holding me in good academic arena for higher studies.
Realizing the inherent importance of maintaining a good academic record to make a
realistic claim for advanced graduate studies, I could succeed to get SGPI 7.8 / 10 in IInd
year and 8.57 / 10 in III rd year.
I had innate passion for organizing group activities right from my childhood. It
worked in my undergraduate program and I took the leading role in organizing the events
in “Effervescence 2008” in our institute and that experience filled me with confidence
that I can face multifarious challenges in life.

Research Interests and Experience :
Security of computer systems and networking has become an issue of extreme
importance due to the proliferation of the internet and the sophistication of attackers. The
scope ranges from personal computers to corporate servers from e-commerce sites to
government systems. The researchers can work on a variety of topics and develop
protocols and systems that harden computers against attacks. This made me to hold
social responsibility of coming out with an innovative solution to the widely spread
problem of hacking. Fortunately, I got a chance to present my views by attending the
International conference on Information Systems Security during Dec., 2007 at university
of Delhi, India; I am exposed to the personal interaction and discussions with eminent
faculty in computer science. The sessions and the lectures by eminent professors in the
areas of Network security provided good knowledge. With these intellectual and
informative insights, I succeeded to publish a research paper titled “Dynamic
Isomorphism and Parallelism based on intrusion detection” in the conference HPCA-
2009 held at IIT- BHU-Varanasi, India and I also presented a paper titled “Conjunctive
Network intrusion detection based on Scenario” at a national level student technical
symposium held at S.R.K.R. Engineering College, Bhimavaram, A.P., India. Presently a
paper titled “Spam Filtering System based on LS-SVM using Kernel Target
Alignment” is under review for acceptance to publish in ICMIS-2009.
My achievement of standing All India 3 rd in a national level cryptography contest
shows my interest towards the subject. Trusting in my knowledge and technical skills I
was given a responsibility of being the chief System administrator and organizer of
the winter school on geographical information systems during Jan, 2009 at our institute. I
was also organizer for many other national level technical events. I also participated in
many workshops related to computer science. The mini projects that I worked in 5 th , 6 th
and 7 th semesters strengthened my programming skills (details in the resume).
I have worked on many platforms and languages such as c,c++,java,sql,xml,shell
scripting and different Linux and Networking packages through my research projects and
training programs which show my capability to work on new projects.
By successfully completing a training program on Network management course
during May – June, 2009 at Institute of Management Technology, Ghaziabad, India,
gained experience in handling various servers in different versions of Linux and windows
server environments. With the experience and exposer that I had in my academics as
well as research, I am confident enough to explore the new ideas in graduate studies.
The excellent academic programs and research projects in the field of computer
science at your university well matched my interest.
Extremely distinguished faculty, a graduate program with high quality course
work and research facilities with a cutting edge of every sub field are the factors which
have motivated me to choose your university for my graduate studies.
In conclusion, I would like to add that the essence of University education lies in
the synergetic relationship between the student and his department. I feel that graduate

study at your University will be the most logical extension of my academic pursuits and a
major step towards achieving my objectives. I would be grateful to you if I’m accorded
the opportunity to pursue my Graduate studies in Computer Science with financial
assistance at your institution and am able to justify your faith in me.


---------------------------------------------------------

I consider myself fortunate to be born in a family where education is given utmost importance.
The quest for knowledge and learning new things in life has always been my primary interest. It is the
same quest for knowledge that inspired me to pursue Masters in Computer Science, specializing in
Algorithms and Software Engineering. Before explaining my reasons to pursue MS in Computer Science
Engineering, I would like to give a brief description of my career as progressed so far and also mention
my academic and professional achievements.
I was born and brought up in a small town in southern part of India, where I did my schooling.
Ever since my childhood, Mathematics and Science have been my subjects of interest. Math problems
have always intrigued me and my interest lies in solving them in different methods, applying the
techniques learned in the class. It is the same interest that encourages me to find an optimum solution to
the problems I face in my daily work life today, while developing quality software applications. I
completed my high school with extremely good percentage, and was ranked among the top ten students
of Andhra Pradesh state for the academic year 2001-2002. I was also the awarded prestigious
“PRATIBHA” award by the Government of Andhra Pradesh State for my performance in high school,
which I received from the then-Chief Minister of the state.
After my high school, I wanted to study engineering to learn the practical application of science
concepts learnt in high school and begin my career as an engineer. My excellent performance in high
school helped me to get admitted to BITS-Pilani, which is one of the most reputed universities in India.
Consistently ranked among the top five engineering schools in India along with IITs, BITS is one of the
most sought after universities by engineering and science students. Though I joined in Electrical &amp;
Electronics Engineering program at BITS, my interest has gradually shifted to the field of computer
science. The fundamental course Computer Programming-I, which I studied in the first year sparked
my interest in programming and design of efficient algorithms using the programming language C. The
course Computer Programming-II taught efficient problem solving techniques and efficient way of
writing algorithms. These two courses shifted my interest from Electrical Engineering to Computer
Science. I performed well in these two courses and got good grades. In addition, I studied courses
related to computer architecture like Microprocessor Programming and Interfacing and Digital
Electronics. The elective course Object Oriented Programming with Java introduced me to advanced
levels of programming and designing. I continue to use majority of the concepts learned in this course
even today in my work life. The course Data Communication and Networking improved my knowledge
about the concepts of networking and the assignments in these courses have given me with a strong footing
in the theoretical and practical aspects of Computer Networks.
One of the valuable offerings that BITS provides to its students is full time paid industry
internships for one entire semester in the final year. I got an opportunity to work at National Aerospace
Laboratories as an intern research associate. I worked under the guidance of Dr. Raveendranath U
Nair, Scientist E2 on the project titled “Study on the Electro-Magnetic properties of Frequency
Selective Surfaces for Airborne Radomes”. This work involves deriving formulae to calculate
electromagnetic performance parameters like power transmission, power reflection and insertion phase
delay of radome structures when frequency selective surfaces are incorporated in them. I was also
responsible to write efficient programs using FORTRAN programming to calculate the EM properties
at various frequencies and plot the EM properties at various frequency ranges. I published two IEEE
papers at the IEEE AEM Conference 2009 held in Kolkata, on the work done during my internship
along with my project guide Dr. Raveendranath U Nair and department head Dr R.M. Jha, Scientist F.
After completing my under-graduate program at BITS-Pilani, I joined Infosys Technologies Ltd.
as a Systems Engineer. I joined Infosys after my under-graduation to gain industry experience and
practical knowledge on software engineering before I go for further studies. At Infosys, I had undergone

training for 4 months and learnt various technologies like Relational Database Management Systems
(RDBMS), Advanced Java, Algorithms, HTML/Javascript/CSS, XML programming and EJB. I
completed the training with a CGPA of 4.96/5.0 which shows my passion for computer technologies. I
started my industry work with the project on development of Product Information Management
(PIM) System for Advance Auto Parts, a leading auto retailer in US. The PIM system is used by the
retailer to streamline the data of auto parts they receive from the vendors and perform business
validations. I was involved in the ‘Data Reports’ module of PIM project in which web based reports
were developed using technologies like Java Server Faces, RichFaces and Spring Framework . This also
includes writing complex SQL and JPA queries and optimization of the queries to improve the
performance of the system. I also worked on technologies like C# and Silverlight in the development of
Transport Management System for Wal-Mart. Wal-Mart uses our system to manage its huge set of
carriers, to manage vendors, and optimize the routes of carriers and reduce shipping costs. In this
project, I worked closely with Wal-Mart US employees and got an opportunity to interact with them on
regular basis.
After working in 2.5 years in Infosys, I joined Oracle India Pvt. Ltd to have a better career and
experience on product development domain. At Oracle, I got an opportunity to develop their latest
project management tool Fusion, on which thousands of developers are working on several modules.
Working with many brilliant minds at Oracle, I developed my knowledge of software engineering. I was
appreciated many a time by the Project Manager and Technology Architect for solving various
challenges we faced during the development of the application. One such challenge was the
development of custom UI component for JSF data table component to reduce the load time. Our project
won the Best Managed Project for FY 2010-2011 for its high quality standards and performance.
Over the past few years, I developed a keen interest in research and made it my career goal to
contribute to research in software engineering. While developing the software, I was intrigued by the
scope of the possible improvement of the performance of the application with proper research in this
area. This industry work further contributed to my interest in Software Engineering and encouraged me
to go for Masters Program. I believe that graduate studies in Computer Science will help me gain
knowledge and hone my research skills in the desired field. Research projects I wish to take up under the
faculty at Iowa State University will expose me to research in the field and interaction with faculty and
fellow students will give a wider perspective of research being done in the software engineering and
algorithms.
From the information I got from the Iowa State University website and after speaking to the
current students, I believe that the work being carried by the Software Engineering Laboratory at ISU
matches with my interest. I believe working under the faculty at ISU will help me pursue research based
quality graduate education. The strong research programs and state-of-the-art research labs encouraged
me to apply for Iowa State University. With the background I have gained so far I strongly believe that I
possess the aptitude, discipline and perseverance to sustain the motivation and drive needed for a
Masters degree. From the knowledge gained from research work at National Aerospace Labs, the
projects I worked on at the university and from my work experience in application development, I am
confident that, if admitted to the MS program for Spring 2012 with financial aid, I will be on track to
achieve my long term career goals. I am confident that education from Iowa State University will
provide me with the best environment to achieve my goals and provide invaluable experiences.

----------------------------------------------------------
